[music]
I'm Steven Angel with David English in
Hong Kong. Obviously, we've been
listening to Donald Trump and Sai
Takichi's son uh the new prime minister
of Japan having their greetings to each
other in Akasaka Palace as Donald Trump
begins uh his visit here to Tokyo. He
arrived late yesterday at 5:00 p.m.
local time and then this morning, as you
can see, being greeted by the new prime
minister uh at the palace entrance
there. Uh the two talked warmly about
their affection for the slain former
prime minister Shinszo Abbe uh and uh
Donald Trump had similar warm words for
Aban. They immediately both talked about
the military capacity and Takiichi known
to be more of a nationalistic leader
wants to increase uh their her defense
budget she says continue to shine as the
leader of a strengthened Japan Japan's
national power namely diplomacy defense
capabilities economic power technology
intelligence and human resources uh
Donald Trump responded by saying he
always loved Japan and the relationship
will be stronger than ever and uh also
praised the orders uh that Japan has had
for military hardware from the United
States. Donald Trump concluded his
comments by saying the United States is
an ally at the strongest level with
Japan.
David and uh let's also bring in Tobias
Harris, founder and principal at
political risk advisory firm uh Japan
Foresight. Tobias,
what are your immediate thoughts about
the warm greeting the two leaders are
having and the building of this
relationship?
>> I think certainly the tone that we saw
was a little more wholesome from the
president than we had seen when he met
with Ishiba earlier this year. and
[snorts] you know the the specific
praise uh for Takahi as a leader who's
committed to strengthening Japan's
defense. I mean that I think uh will I
think be very useful for Takahi to say
you know look I'm I'm strengthening our
ties with the United States and that was
recognized and I think just sort of the
personal touches of course you know you
know clearly I think going into this
meeting there was going to be a you know
a lot of bonding over their shared
affection for the late Shinszo AB. We
obviously saw that on display. Uh that
clearly is going to be just a useful uh
a useful connection between the two of
them because I think there is genuine
affection that they do share. Uh you
know of course Abbe being Takichi's
mentor and and Trump I think really
having you know really genuinely warm
feelings uh to the for the late prime
minister. So I think clearly that is
useful as they said about trying to
build a relationship and just I think
some of the the you know reaching out
and saying you know call me anytime you
want. I mean, I think just some of those
personal touches that seemed missing
when Isha met with Trump earlier this
year, I think that's going to make a
difference in terms of how this meeting
is received at home.
>> What do you think of the fact that
defense spending and defense
capabilities were so high up uh in
Takiichi's comments? Uh again, this is a
controversial subject to raise uh
military spending and defense spending
given the pacifist constitution. Uh but
again, is 2% of GDP on defense spending
going to be enough to assuage Donald
Trump who wants his allies in this part
of the world to pick up a bigger part of
the check?
It's I mean it's it's a big question and
clearly Takichi, you know, she took over
last week and made very clear from
really the moment she became prime
minister that she was going to really
try to send a signal that defense
spending is going to go up faster than
planned. So there's already talk about
trying to get defense spending to 2% of
GDP during the current fiscal year
instead of waiting until 2027. But of
course, you know, the real challenges
are it's not even so much the passage of
his constitution, but really more the
question of how is Japan going to pay
for it? because you did have a consensus
that yes, more defense spending is in
order particularly after Russia's
invasion of Ukraine. I think there was
really it was a wakeup call for a lot of
Japanese people. But you would look at
polls and they'd say yes, of course more
defense spending is great. But when
asked specifically about how to pay for
it, whether that's higher taxes or
whether that's running more debt, uh
whether you know whether that's you know
uh finding ways to cut spending
elsewhere, there was not a whole lot of
consensus around that. And if you
couldn't get to that to when it comes to
2% of GDP, getting beyond that is going
to be a real challenge. And you know,
back then, back in 2022, Prime Minister
Kisha had majorities in both houses of
the diet. Takuchi does not have that
luxury. So there's there's some real
questions. You know, it's one thing to
say, you know, to President Trump, yes,
I want to raise defense spending. This
is my priority. I'm going to work
towards this. But really, how whether
she has the political capital to really
get it done, to really make a huge leap
beyond 2% is going to be a challenge.
Now, Tobias, does she have enough
political capital and popularity and
also uh flattery to Donald Trump to
possibly reopen negotiations of the
trade deal for a 15% tariff in exchange
for a rather opaque $550 billion
investment fund into the United States
of which we've not gotten a lot of
details.
I don't think she's going to be in a
position to renegotiate at the moment,
you know, and she got in, you know, a
bit of hot water during the LDP
leadership campaign when she suggested
that she'd be open to that and then had
to walk that back uh, you know, quite
quite hastily, you know, really saying
that no, actually I'll work within the
framework of the agreement if there are
any issues. And so I think right now the
priorities certainly through the end of
the year is really figuring out how this
joint investment process is going to
work because of course we have theou but
there are a lot of questions about how
the investment committee is going to
work how the projects are going to be
identified what role exactly Japanese
public financial institutions are going
to play what you know how much money are
private companies going to put up how is
the president going to select projects
there's you know a lot of a lot of
questions that have to be sorted out of
course then there's the questions about
who gets you know what returns from you
that are generated by any projects. And
so I think right now the focus is let's
figure out what exactly we have we've
agreed to how this process is going to
work. And yes, if there are questions
about the fairness down the road, I
think then they'll take it up within
this framework, but I don't think that
she's going to come right off the bat
and try to renegotiate it. I just don't
think she's going to be uh wanting to
take on that challenge right now.
Tobias Harris, thank you so much sir for
waiting around and being patient as we
of course witnessed that just moments
ago that meeting of course first meeting
between the two president there at Japan
foresight. Uh that takes us really into
markets right now about 20 well 19
minutes to the opening bell in here in
Hong Kong and up in mainland China and
we are you know uninspired when you look
at the market action right now. So
Taiwan is coming online not a lot there.
Korea is obviously going the opposite
way of just a massive move up yesterday.
It's worth pointing that out. Nicke
anything coming off lows of the session.
S&P of course topping uh you know 7,000
that seems to be just right around the
corner if you think about it right. Uh
ve very quickly dollar is softer last we
checked second day in a row and of
course in we're entering this window of
flurry of central bank decisions. Uh
speaking of just geopolitics and trade
there, it looks like we'll get an
extension to the one on the Mexican
front. That's according to the president
there. More on that in a moment. Of
course, when you look at gold did dip
some of the contracts, not this one
specifically, dip middle, the 4,000
level. And I think when you look at
copper specifically, we're not really
seeing a lot there. Speaking of Jansy,
copper is one of the uh companies
reporting earnings today. Speaking of
earnings and speaking of Chinese
markets, we are slightly higher in
futures coming up on your screens. And
of course, the other big story we'll get
to in a moment is the resumption of bond
buying. And as you can see, yields are
pushing lower ever so slightly across
the curve there 10 and 30-year yield at
216 on the 30. That should be at about
one month lows as far as that's
concerned. Okay. Uh that takes us well
into the naturally into the agenda for
today. So 4,000 is the level to watch on
the Shanghai comp. I think we closed
just four points below that level.
Yesterday we talked about the CGB rally
and of course what we're looking at as
far as the copper and some of the metal
space is concerned. This route in
Xiaomi, I think we were down 20 I'd say
26% now from the peak. Uh not just one,
not just two, not just three. I think we
have four trading debuts today here in
Hong Kong. The busiest day
um for first day cash calls here in Hong
Kong going back to July. And in about 30
minutes from now, of course, it's a
weekly briefing coming out of the chief
executive here in Hong Kong, John. Okay,
let's talk about this uh this bond
buying story. You have state media
reporting that the PBOC will be resuming
or restarting its sovereign bond
purchases. Um analysts say this may
actually be aimed at supporting the debt
market and maybe boost liquidity. Let's
bring in Mman, our China correspondent
here with us on set. And the bond market
has in fact already moved along these
lines already.
>> Yes. And this is partly because you know
we have seen not a lot of people being
very interested in the bond market of
late right it's like a lot of rotation
from the bond market into the stock
market and that's the opposite problem
that we had back in January when PBOC
had halted bond buying that was because
people were piling into the bond market
at the time and we're seeing record low
yields. Now, of course, it's a different
story now, and the PBC is saying that
it's going to resume bond trading. And
you think about it, the concern could be
that if the 10-year yield is too high,
and that's often an anchor for lending
rates and mortgage rates, then that
could slow down the economy, right? So,
the PBC, I guess, is trying to strike
this balance between the rally in the
stock market and a healthy growth in the
bond market. and analysts are saying
that this could compress the spread
between the short and long-term yields
and and hopefully encourage more people
to enter the bond market.
>> Hey Minman, uh China obviously trying to
lure more long-term funds into its
capital markets. How's it planning to do
that?
>> Yes, so the CSRC, the market regulator,
has announced a two-year plan to do
that. And among some of the measures
include for example simplifying the
licensing and registration process and
opening up new products for foreign
institutions to start trading and that
include ETF options uh commodity futures
for example. They're also trying to
increase policy transparency uh ensure
equal rules when it comes to short-term
trading and also a green channel for
certain types of funds including pension
funds, sovereign wealth funds and
charity funds. uh improve efficiencies
of fund transfers for example. But the
point is the government is now trying to
attract more foreign investments at a
time when China's inbound FDI so far
this year up to September has been down
by about 10% on year in UN terms and
obviously we're seeing this coordinated
effort now they're trying to stabilize
the bond market trying to attract more
funds into the capital markets and this
in the context of the US China trade war
where the US has been restricting
Chinese investments we know China on the
other hand has been repeating this idea
that they are still very uh determined
to open up their markets to the rest of
the world.
>> All right, Bloomberg's China
correspondent Min Low. Thanks so much.
All right, still ahead here on the China
show, we're talking markets with State
Street. Find out why they [music] think
the Fed's cutting cycle might end
earlier and at a higher rate than many
[music] investors expect. And we are
counting down to the open of trade in
[music] Shanghai, Shenzhen, and uh Hong
Kong. So you can see Dave,
what's on your mind?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I have a lot in
mind. Uh we don't want to get too much
into my brain, but I just want to
mention here about 40 [music] minutes of
the opening, but we're just getting the
fix today. And it's another strong
midpoint coming [music] out of the PBC.
Another 708 for a second day. 70856
against the US dollar. On your [music]
screens coming up is a remn. As you can
see, we're inching ever closer to the
710 [music] handle on the offer rate.
Plenty more ahead. This is the China
show.
All right. So, we [music] are barely
into Tuesday and what's really going to
be and you know this is just scratching
the surface of this really massive
consequential week for markets. So this
is the macro overlay. What you don't
have here is the geopolitical overlay
where you have a meeting taking place of
course on Thursday, President Trump and
President Xi. And on top of all of that,
you have five of the mag seven I believe
reporting Wednesday into Thursday. So
pick pick your poison if you will across
these markets. But you know what? All
that being said, S&P 500 futures are now
trading above 6,900.
7,000 seems like a good week or two
away. What do we make of all of this?
Marvin Low is here with us on set,
senior global macro strategist at State
Street Markets. He's in town paying us a
visit. Nice to see you, sir.
>> Nice to be here. Thank you.
>> Does this make sense to you, everything
that's going on?
>> Um, yeah, I mean, to a certain extent,
um, there's still strength in the
economy. Um, I would say that the
American consumer, uh, continues to
surprise to the upside despite
everything that's being thrown at them.
And if they're spending and companies
are making more money than people
expect, you're going to engage in risk.
And I think that that's been um you
know, it's [clears throat] it's been
easier to understand that rather than
over complicate things. And we have a
tendency to over complicate things.
>> We do really. Okay. Let let me try that
even further then. So in that scenario,
why is the Fed going to cut this week
then?
>> Well, see, so that's a great story. Um
uh and ultimately, I think that it does
have more longerterm ramifications to a
certain degree. Um you know the Fed is
trying to appease the government to a
certain degree. You know we know that um
you know the administration would like
lower yields. They are independent but
um you know when everything aligns for
them in terms of inflation not
necessarily surging anymore um and
concerns about the job market they want
to get a little bit ahead of that.
>> Investors want them to get a lot ahead
of that. And I think that's kind of the
bidden offer if you if if you will in
our world. So we have So they're cutting
tomorrow that likes that's likely a done
deal. There's December. So two are
priced this year. I think you have two
or three more next year to 2027.
>> How does that curve look to you? It's
about five cuts. Does it make sense to
you?
>> Yeah, it looks it looks a little
aggressive. Um you know the December is
a little bit of a a crapshoot if you
will just because we don't know where
the data is. um if there is if we do get
data and we're comfortable with the
releases and it shows that there's a bit
more strength in the economy that I
think uh exists um they should take a
little bit of a pause um and then when
we kind of look at how the individual
members viewed all of this in September
when they gave us a dot plot all those
other things it was pretty much split um
you know outside of one more extreme uh
extreme vote um a little bit more than
half one more than half thought that
they should do two um the other groups
thought that they that they should do
one and you know that's pretty much what
we're debating right now whether it's
one or two more before the end of the
year.
>> Okay. The the story on the dollar
>> going into next year I think we're down
10% on DXY 7% year to date I think on
the Bloomberg dollar index.
>> Surely that can't continue at this rate
for many years or like what's the call
going into next year? So, so, um, you
know, for sure if we're looking at
things from kind of a short to
intermediate term trading type
perspective, it is an extended loss at
this point, uh, we've got data in terms
of customer positioning. Customer
positioning, if you kind of look at
things over a 5year period, are quite
low.
>> Um, you get, um, a dollar lower and
yields higher. I because I think they're
I think they're somewhat related. um if
you are really worried about the US in
kind of a more uh structural manner like
do I need to own as much dollars kind of
going forward that I have versus the
last 10 years where when I owned a lot.
So I think that's where we're debating
right now for the moment. Um I think
correlations around you know yields and
around the dollar are starting to make
sense. So you know I do expect some
strength maybe going into the end of the
year. Um, but we're going to have to
have a lot more clarity into 2025 with
the Fed, with, you know, all of this
tariff discussions, with inflation, um,
to really build much more gains in the
dollar.
>> Will the tariff induce inflation that
has been in the pipeline for some time,
is it ever going to show up?
>> You know what? Um, that that that that's
a great question. Um, investors for the
most part at this point are are saying
no. Um we kind of see how uh inflation
swap pricing is. We see you know really
the the rally if you will in US duration
after an extended period of time of of
underperforming. Um our view of the
world is that it is going to make its
way in and the fourth fourth quarter was
saved again.
>> Yeah. Well we're here.
>> While [laughter] we're here exactly
exactly we see a first quarter now.
>> Yeah. if if if as as we go into the end
of the year, some of the um some of the
information that we have um shows that
retailers are finally starting to pass
that on. So, all the stuff that they
bought before and they were and they
were able to put on the shelves without
the higher price,
>> that seems to be making its way out of
the system. Um but even more important
based on some of the stuff that we've
been looking at is that they're right
that they're increasing prices on
non-tariff goods. In other words,
there's pricing pressure. They're trying
to possibly offset some of the tariff um
uh price hikes that that they need to
make uh their way into the prices, but
overall that means inflation does rise
um notably kind of going into the end of
this year into the beginning of this
year.
>> Interesting because you just reminded me
by one of your answers there that you
guys see a lot of these flows very sort
of very unique perspective there. Do you
think the end still catches a bid
>> moving forward? What are you seeing as
far as positioning and flows there?
Yeah. So, so our um our uh data around
the end is that everyone's pretty
neutral. Um they had they had tried to
be long it, they had tried to be short
it. Um both of those instances have
created volatility and and things didn't
necessarily evolve the way everyone
expected. Um we would view that as clean
positioning.
>> So from a clean positioning perspective,
if we could finally get a little bit of
comfort that directionally they're going
to, if you will, tighten policy, that's
what everyone's waiting for, you know,
rate hikes. Um and and I think that that
would actually benefit um their bond
market and um their currency markets at
the same time. Um then then I think
yeah, I think there's scope for for some
uh yen appreciation, but um investors do
seem to be a bit on the sidelines
waiting for maybe a little bit more
clarity and with the with the new
government coming in, you know, they've
got to find their footing. It might take
a little while.
>> What about gold? How are you looking at
that?
>> Yeah, you know what? Um gold is there in
my mind two traits to to gold. one is
around dollar debasement. So the
strength in gold is saying something
about the weaker dollar and a lot of the
other things that we talked about. Um
[snorts] it does feel frothy to me. Um
you know so from a trading perspective
um it looks like we're getting
overextended. You know when when I see
lines uh and social media picking up
people buying gold coins, you know, that
might be a sign that that we're a little
bit extended. But um there is some
longer term questions that one has to
ask. And generally speaking, um, gold
doesn't make up a big part of people's
portfolios. Um, so from a kind of fiat
currency hedge, in my mind, it does make
sense to own it. Um, you know, pick pick
your levels importantly, but you know,
there is something to this dollar
debasement story.
>> Fantastic, Marvin. It was great to see
you. Let's do this again next time
you're in town. I think your team's
going to let us know, of course. Marvin,
Lo there, guys, senior global macro
strategies at State Street uh markets.
Just very quickly before we go into the
opening bell, a couple of minutes away.
So we have a lot of trading debuts
today. Sandy heavy [music] unchanged
might be the first time we're actually
seeing a massive one coming to market
with I just to borrow Marvin's point
there somewhat neutral on pricing.
[music] Same can't be said though about
the others. The opening bell is coming
up next. You're watching the China show.
Good morning
and welcome back. You are of course
watching the China show. We are counting
down [music] to the open of markets in
mainland China and Hong Kong. And again,
we'll see what kind of bump or if any
bump we're getting [music] from the
positive sentiment coming from Malaysia
and that framework deal between China
and the United States and again all the
flattery being tossed around between
Trump and Tai Takian in Japan. [music]
Uh curiously Dave, you know, with 20
seconds to go before the open here, uh
[music] you're seeing Snee Heavy the big
debut today. deputant. It's the seventh
Chinese company to list in Hong Kong
this year. Over a billion dollar
valuation, $1.6 [music] billion they're
raising and it's flat as can be. Flat as
a pancake in the gray market. So, we're
5 seconds away from seeing the numbers
start turning.
Yeah, it was bound to happen. We would
get a, you know, a flat first day of
trading. Just really looking how manic
and to the upside most have actually
been. U just to the point Steve was just
making there. So today's actually the
busiest listing day here in Hong Kong
going back to going back to July. So
it's you have a few companies coming
here. Uh in fact just a few hours ago
speaking of I mean mark your calendars
now November 6 is coming up. [snorts] Um
and we we have a few more companies
listing uh on those dates. I think I'm
counting we ride you pony AI. My
producers are about to help me by
showing a graphic on the screens. There
we go. Thank you so much, Joyce and
electronic also on November 6. But uh
looking at price action almost the
equivalent of a really good general
anesthetic to put you to sleep really in
some ways not just this when you look at
the rest of the Asia Pacific. We'll talk
about the Philippine best in a moment
because that one hitting a record low
that could be an idiosyncratic story. Uh
let's have a look at where we are as far
as the CGB curve is concerned. This time
we're looking at futures. Should be up
last we checked and really indicative of
this resumption of bond buying
operations. Not so much that this was a
complete surprise. People had been
talking about this in recent months. We
did get that report though coming
through out of of state media yesterday
that it was coming and that they were
going to resume bond buying operations.
And sort of the the over the e equity
market overlay here is this could
provide even more liquidity if you think
about it to this liquiditydriven equity
market rally. Although if you think
about it too bonds have been a trend
source of funding as it pertains to this
rotation uh into equity markets. Uh gold
very quickly uh should see some pressure
there. We that's what we did see across
some of the Asian other parts of the
Asia Pacific, some of the miners, some
of the ETFs on your screens. Speaking of
debuts, I want to go through each of
these ones, but suffice to say, we've
seen better days on his trading debuts.
Um, we have Sne coming up on your
screens and we have, I think, two or
three more that are listing. Oh, there
we go. So, one is flat, the other maybe
not too flat. And, uh, earnings, HSBC,
Pingan,
uh, Bank of China among others that are
set to report later today. HSBC, of
course, that's around midday, so we're
up 2% as far as that's concerned.
And speaking of and that's just to say
that we're in the thick of earning
season. Uh and you have CIC
expecting these entra listed firms to
reports the fastest growth in profits
since 2021. Traders though they've
spoken to that they remain fixed on the
geopolitical side of the conversation
here. Let's bring in our Asia equities
reporter Wishu here on set to talk us
through what we are expecting from 3Q
here as it pertains to Chinese earnings.
Yeah, actually you just saw on the
screen that we are expecting 5.8 uh 5.8%
of of uh third quarter earnings growth
compared to last quarter right here on
the screen and that is the biggest jump
since 2021 and compared to uh last
quarter just 1.6% up. So actually we
were quite surprised at how good things
could be looking uh for a third quarter
and um unfortunately somewhat that
doesn't seem to be attracting investors
interest as much right now because a lot
of focus right now is more on these
trade tensions and how it's going to
play out. And another issue with that is
also because things uh the recovery
seems a little uneven at this point. You
have on one side um the AI theme,
anti-involution, gold, these topics
really catching investors attention.
We're expecting really strong earnings
around that front as well as the finance
and earnings that we will be expecting
very soon this this today and also this
week. But on the other hand, things that
are more tied to consumption or domestic
demand seems to be on the the weaker
side of things. So that uneven disco uh
the the recovery seems to also uh
indicate that the broader market might
not be uh receiving as much of a big
boost from from these uh third quarter
expectations. We you might have noticed
first news set very nice right the other
one is Ivonne usually should be here
she's not here because she's on route to
Korea for this big meeting that's coming
up of course with the two president how
are people positioned ahead of the
meeting between President Trump and
President Xi
>> yeah that's I think a very interesting
but also very tricky one because things
are quite divided you know on one hand
you have like these sellside analysts
from Bank of America and also from um
Goldman Sachs saying that it's a good
timing to buy the dip and that you
should stay risk gone until the end of
the month which is coming up very soon
in just a few days and that Goldman
Sachs was also saying that the default
mindset is really up to buy the deep and
to position in for all these structural
uh structural factors. So they are more
on the bullish camp. But then on the
other side of things, you have Nomuna
and Morgan Stanley really recommending
recommending to still stay off uh from
any potential dips saying that there is
still quite some uncertainty when it
comes to what can come uh in this
conversation. Yes, yesterday or over the
weekend we had that framework. So it
seems to be setting a positive tone, but
things can still change drastically as
as you see. So until we see what's going
on going to happen in th on Thursday, I
think there's still a lot of uncertainty
in terms of positioning as well.
>> All right, Bloomberg Asia Equities
reporter Winnie Shu, thanks for joining
us. Uh we're here in Tokyo right now, of
course, waiting for presidents Trump and
Prime Minister Takahi to reemerge. Uh
they're expecting a signing ceremony
expected possibly in ship building uh
momentarily. President Trump has hailed
the US alliance with Japan and praised
the new prime minister Takayichi as they
begin their first face-to-face meeting
in Tokyo.
>> We've received your orders for a very
large amount of new military equipment.
And you know that we make the best
military equipment in the world, the
jets, the missiles, and everything else.
And hopefully we don't have to use them
very much, if at all. But we appreciate
that order, and we very much appreciate
the uh trade. We're going to do
tremendous trade together.
>> And our economy and government reporter
Erica Yokyama joins us now. So obviously
we've been following the uh movements of
Donald Trump as he came up from Koala
Lumpur to Tokyo last night. Tell us
what's on his schedule. In addition to
Takiichi, he's going to be meeting other
people. What can we expect from these
talks?
>> Sure. So, as you just said, Trump
arrived yesterday from Malaysia as a
part of his Asia trip and today is going
to be the core day, a very busy schedule
ahead for him. So, he just had an
opening remark signing a ceremony with
Takichi and now he going to have a
working lunch with her. Then he moves
heads to a Yoko Yokosuka naval base and
tonight he will meet a bunch of Japanese
business leaders and in the next few few
next few days a few key outcomes are
expected. They may confirm progress on
Japan's $550 billion investment in the
US. They Japan may also announce plans
to boost defense spending, something
that Trump has been requesting for a
long time. And in addition, the two
sides are expect two sides are expected
to discuss cooperation in ship building
probably signing on as you said or
critical mineral supply chains.
>> Well, that $550 billion investment
pledge uh into the United States, it was
not negotiated by Takiichian. It was
Prime Minister Isha before uh he stepped
down. Um there's there's been commentary
or debate whether she would reopen it.
Most likely she will not re try and
renegotiate it. But do we really know
more about the ins and outs of what
Japan is going to invest in the United
States? You mentioned the ship building
agreement that is possibly the one
they're about to sign momentarily.
>> Sure. Actually like we are increasingly
hearing that there's some tangible
tangible progress on that investment
scheme. Several Japanese firms including
like AI, semiconductors and other key
areas are pitching the project actually
right now and the US Japan investment
committee may soon begin reviewing the
those pitches in terms of like and
feasibility
profitability as well as how to finance
them as well. And among these sectors
actually the energy powers are drawing
this particular attention after commerce
secretly Lutnik yesterday highlighted
the importance of and power
infrastructures in local media
interview. In that interview he actually
said that the first project could be
possible to be implemented by by the end
of this year. Um although no concrete
plans are expected to be announced
during Trump's visit this time but Japan
probably wants to signal that some
project will come sooner or sooner than
later and Trump's as I said will meet a
couple quite a bunch of Japanese
business leaders tonight at the dinner.
So maybe like Japanese companies will
show their appetite and interest to kick
off the negotiation with Trump.
Yeah, and also maybe appetite for for
the dinner itself. Erica, thank you so
much. Erica Yoko Yama there in Tokyo,
our Bloomberg economy and government
reporter there as we were just having
the conversation. So, just two things to
know. I'll make this very quick.
Philippine peso hitting a record low a
few minutes ago against the US dollar.
We're not trading at 59. The quote is
three uh on dollar peso. Point number
one. Point number two is when you look
at gold, this is separate, completely
separate from the peso story. is we're
just getting a news line coming through.
The BOK is considering its first gold
purchase
in about 12 years or [music] so. So,
more on those stories in a moment.
You're watching the China Show.
Welcome back. back. You're watching the
China show 12 minutes into the cash
market session. Some pressure coming
through, not
not completely out of line with the
declines we're seeing overall, but yes,
we are looking at some pressure across
some rare earth names. Uh you have these
export curbs on these critical minerals
have prompted the West, especially the
United States to launch more meaningful
efforts to build a supply chain that is
independent
agnostic if you think about it to what's
going on in in China. Martin Richie is
with us right now, our metal mining
reporter. Uh they've been looking
closely at this and Martin's with us out
of mainland China today. Martin. So
Martin, talk to us about I mean you you
can't do this overnight certainly, but
what are the efforts that the West is
making to I guess reduce its dependence
on China for this.
>> Yeah. Um I'll talk very specifically
about magnets. Uh this is the main use
of of Rayworth's uh Rayworth permanent
magnets that go into all sorts of
applications from uh you know common
household goods to uh cars uh and
military applications, fighter jets and
these were at the center of the uh the
trade tensions we've seen between uh US
and China this year. Um I've been
talking to a whole array of um
executives in the ray earth industry
from miners to magnet plants uh you know
to talk about their plans going forward
because governments as you said uh are
now keenly focused on trying to build up
these supply chains. Um in the US it's
interesting that there are already a
sort of initial wave of magnet plants uh
coming on stream now and in the next few
years that were already sort of in the
pipeline even before the trade turmoil
this year. Um but the challenge for them
in sort of getting up to up to speed and
to make those announcements turn into
kind of reality is is just to build the
whole prior supply chain from the mines
uh that could be anywhere in the world
to the separation plants the processing
the making the metal uh and then all the
latter stages that go to making the the
magnets. So it's quite a complex
process. uh you can get all the capacity
on paper you want, but it's sort of
turning that into uh real material that
really offsets what China can produce.
That's the that's the challenge going
forward.
Uh Martin, I'm just going to interrupt
you just briefly. We'll get back into
talking about rare earths in just a
second. We're seeing uh footage right
now. Now, if we do have those live
pictures of Trump uh and Takah Iichan in
Japan signing um an agreement, it's
widely expected to be around ship
building cooperation. Uh maybe if I can
get in my ear whether that has been
confirmed or not, but as you can see the
two of them uh not yet quite signing it.
But Martin, let me get back to you real
quickly about this fascinating story
that you have. There come the documents
on the uh first agreement that the two
leaders are uh signing right now. Uh if
you could just comment a little bit
about the the time to market for these
rare earths. I mean Novon Magnetics is
one company that you mentioned in your
story out of I believe Austin, Texas.
How quickly can they get up to speed as
well as the signing ceremony if you will
that uh the United States had with
Australia to provide uh rare earth
minerals? They can't replace China's
supply overnight.
>> They're not going to replace it
overnight. Um, but there is a sort of
the beginnings uh of of a of a supply
chain now coming together. And you got
the US uh government very sort of
focused on this now in the way they
haven't perhaps been before. The US has
invested in a rare earth company that
mines in the in America. MP materials.
It's pump money into them to help them
fund a new magnets plant. Uh so they'll
have a sort of mindtomagnet supply
chain. Um you mentioned Australia uh the
government uh the US government signed a
deal with Australia to uh get some of
its supply of ray earth minerals but
again uh those mines there will take
some time to develop get up to speed and
you're talking about deals with other
countries Brazil as well. And I think
what they're edging towards is a sort of
form of international cooperation where
you know perhaps there's G7 countries
plus some others uh have a sort of ring
fence supply chain where uh miners can
supply within that tariff-free but China
might face uh some uh trade restrictions
going into that. That's the sort of
arrangement that seems to be um emerging
if you look at the discussions between
various countries.
All right, Martin Richie from Bloomberg
coming to us out of China. Thanks so
much. Great story. I recommend everybody
to pick it up and read it from the
Bloomberg terminal. All right, as we
were just seeing, President Trump and
Japanese Prime Minister Sanai Takahichi,
uh they have just finished signing their
first uh deal on this um what's going to
be turning into what we hear is a
working lunch. Uh it's widely believed
that they've been signing this deal on
cooperation in ship building as Donald
Trump has not been secret in his desire
to make America great again in ship
building. Japan and South Korea of
course out in this part of the world and
China no doubt are are the biggest ship
builders here uh around the world. So
we'll have to see the details. Uh, also
of course Howard Lutnik, the commerce
secretary has talked about one of the
first uh signings uh for the $550
billion investment fund that Japan has
pledged to um you know build out as part
of the agreement for a 15% tariff from
the United States. Uh the first deal
could be in the power generation area uh
into the United States. So we'll have to
see if details are forthcoming on that.
Um, as you can see, they've just signed
it. Subscribers can also turn to the
terminal for more on this. We have a top
live blog going on. Tive go is your
function for the latest updates, plus
commentary and analysis from our expert
editors who are pouring over [music]
every signature and every word coming
out of Akasaka Palace here in Tokyo.
More ahead. This is Bloomberg.
and welcome [music] back to the China
show. Just a clarification, uh Donald
Trump and Takahichi, uh the prime
minister of Japan just signing that
deal. [music] It was, according to the
White House, a framework for critical
minerals. All right, South Korea's Hana
Aerospace says it remains optimistic
about opportunities in the US despite
China's sanctions on its American
subsidiaries. Global chief strategy
officer Alex Wong told us exclusively
about their plans to diversify supply
chains
have aware of the sanctions announced uh
by China uh on Hanoa's USA subsidiaries
and we're reviewing what what that
impact will be going forward. But I
think the story here is whether it's
from the Chinese perspective, whether
it's from the Korean perspective,
whether it's from the US perspective,
this really highlights the sign
significant role that Hanwa plays in
ship building and the [snorts] role that
we can play in the growing cooperation
between Korea and the United States as
allies on [snorts] ship building. we
have uh technological capabilities,
advanced manufacturing capabilities,
sheer industrial scale, or we really
can, as the two leaders uh President Lee
and President Trump have said, make
American ship building great again. And
we'll see uh when President Lee and
President Trump meet here in Kyongju,
whether there's more shape brought to uh
to that Maza [clears throat]
deal and we stand ready uh to provide
support to that and uh ready to uh to to
implement uh that that cooperation.
But Hanland has been so ambitious when
it comes to the US Navy ship building
potential. Does this sort of restrict or
give you pause for thought?
>> Well, I think there's going to be a lot
of opportunity uh in the United States
on ship building, whether that's uh on
naval ships, whether that's on
maintenance and repair of naval ships.
We've done one of those in our [snorts]
oppo yard in in in South Korea, but
we're also looking uh at expanding and
modernizing the Philadelphia shipyard.
the the most historic shipyard in the
United States which we acquired last
year. As we build out capacity there,
you know, with a goal of moving it from
two ships a year capacity to 20 ships a
year if we reach our objective, that
provides a lot a lot of opportunity
whether for with you know naval ship
repair, maintenance, even construction
uh or commercial oceangoing ship ship
building.
How is Han affected by China's
restrictions on rare earths which of
course are widely used in the defense
industry
>> right well I think every uh company and
every country uh in the world is looking
at the possible implications of those
restrictions uh as you say they are an
upstream input into a number of
industries not just defense but it's
something you know as a defense company
that we'll we'll look at as will other
uh every other defense company in the
world. But as you know Sher that's going
to be a topic of conversation here
between President Trump and uh President
Xi when they meet here in Gongju and
we'll see what the outcome is of that.
>> Where does Hannah source rare earths
from? And is it impacting the way that
you think about supply chains?
>> Well, we think about supply chains from
a a security perspective as well. what
can we do to source whether it's rare
earths, whether it's our steel, whether
it's our other technological and and and
u uh commodity inputs in a way that uh
makes us resilient and therefore we can
deliver for our customers. You know,
I'll give you an example. uh you know we
are the number one maker of artillery
systems the number one howitzer in the
world sold uh to to many countries and
nearly half of those inputs are actually
US sourced uh and sourced and then
sourced from Korea and other nations.
So, we're looking to diversify the
inputs into all of our uh uh products
again for security reasons,
>> but China takes up most of the sourcing
when it comes to rare earths. Are you
diversifying?
>> Well, I think every country and every
company in the world is looking at that.
But you're right. uh China uh has a a
very dominant and very strong position
in the refining of rare earths. And if
you look uh whether it's at the United
States, whether it's Europe, uh whether
it's uh apec economies, uh how do we uh
all look at that that supply chain,
strengthen it and strengthen the
resilience uh of countries and companies
around the world again uh from a
national security perspective, but just
for the health of the world economy.
>> There we go. That was Sherry and Alex
Wong, Hanwa Aerospace [music] Global
Chief Strategy Officer. And with that
exclusive conversation, we'll just leave
you with a look at Shanghai about 25
minutes into the cash market session.
[music] There's plenty more on the way.
The second hour of the China show is
just ahead.
[music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. We're just going into the second
hour of the program. Left side is
[music] what
that's So, I'm a bit confused actually.
So, it was a bit [music] chilly last
week. the the mercury stepped up a notch
or two over the weekend, came [music]
back down on Monday and it just seems
terrible on Tuesday. Uh a bit of rain,
some humidity is back. There's not a lot
of visibility and you know what, volumes
are also on the thinner side as far as
markets go on top of price falling right
now quarter 1% to the downside. All that
said, there's a lot to look forward to.
HSBC is coming out with earnings today
so we'll see what that holds in about
two hours or so. Um, that just to say
it's a busy earnings day in Hong Kong.
Uh, it's a busy listing day as far as
some of the big debuts are concerned.
More on that in a moment. Shanghai comp
did get close to 4,000
uh four points short of that sort of
nice round number. We've stepped back
about six points from that close
yesterday. Uh, we talked about trading
volumes on on the hang. We're, you know,
on a aggregate basis across the region.
We're about 21%
thinner than where we should be on a
30-day average for this time of the day.
Right. Ju just very quickly, HSBC, you
have Zjin Mining, that's on the back of
the gold price moving lower. Although on
the gold price, the Bank of Korea said
it was mulling uh or we understand that
the report suggests that Korea was
looking at its first gold purchase since
2013. Uh flip the page please. CGBs. The
other thing as well is coming out of
state media yesterday was the resumption
of bond buying. Yields are pushing lower
across the curve in mainland China. One
market coming online today. The reason
we're looking at this today is that
massive move down in Jakarta yesterday.
We're continuing to see pressure there.
[snorts] Staying in Southeast Asia,
Philippine peso record low rally across
the steel steel space. These are rebar
futures in mainland China. Of course,
gold also catching a bit following the
dip below that 4,000
handle. Okay. Uh let's bring in Mark
Cranfield out of Singapore for us to
help us understand this uh the mood
music across markets today. And yeah,
Mark, what's the what's the DJ playing
today? What's what's this mood music
like?
>> Yeah, it's really a cruising music
today. We're we're on the West Coast
Highway. Things are going fine. We got
the roof down, cool wind in our hair.
Everything feels great. Uh only only
problem is we got this Trump sea meeting
coming up in a couple of days time and
we could go straight into a big storm or
something like that. I I think it almost
feels as though people are just click um
clicking their heels at the moment just
waiting. Can they get past Thursday
without any disruptions to this almost
like a Goldilock scenario that we
currently have in global markets? The
bond markets are very tame. Treasuries
are nicely priced for lower interest
rates from the Federal Reserve. Currency
markets are not doing very much. They're
pretty steady. Uh there's no real
disruption from commodities in the sense
that oil prices are are relatively
stable and low. Got a bit of a pullback
in gold, which is probably helping the
equity market to a degree. So now it
really all hinges on getting through
this meeting between the two presidents
later in the week without them falling
into disarray without we just they just
need to have an amicable meeting. Sign a
few documents and off we go and we get
the year- end rally that everybody's
been hoping for. We can look forward to
Nvidia posting yet another earnings beat
and it's a great finish to the year.
Hey Mark, I'm not so sure we're going to
get the kind of flattery like a Michael
Bolton song uh between Trump and she,
but like what we're getting in Akasaka
Palace right now between Takahi and
Trump, how am I supposed to live without
you? Seems to be uh the prevailing
theme. And there's a honeymoon period in
the markets and Takiichi just a week in
to her premiership. Uh you 50,000 plus
for the Nikkeay. How long does this
honeymoon period last?
There's there's definitely a risk of
complacency building up in in Japanese
equities because as you say, they're
giving her a honeymoon start and there's
almost an assumption from the way that
markets are pricing is that she's going
to get everything she wants. Every time
she brings a spending bill to the
Japanese parliament, it's just going to
be rubber stamped and off you go. And
yet, when you look at she doesn't even
have a real majority. Everything is very
thin. So every single item that she
brings for a vote is going to be pretty
closeun thing. She's going to need to
rally support every time. There's no
guarantee that everything that Takishi
wants is going to go through smoothly.
And yet the markets are pricing for a
very benign scenario. They're also
assuming that the Japanese yen stays
weak for a very long time. That may not
be the case. We got a Bank of Japan
meeting coming up this week. Nobody
expects them to change interest rates
this time, but we may get more
dissenters than we had at the September
meeting. We had two people looking for
an immediate rate hike. Then if you look
at the skew between hawks and doves
currently on the BOJ team, there's
actually a buildup of relative hawks, we
could easily get three or more denters
wanting a rate hike right now, and that
will probably boost the yen. So that
could disrupt Japanese equity markets as
well. Plus, we've got earnings season
coming up in November. There's a pretty
high bar for everyone to beat on that
front. So there's a definitely a little
bit of risk here that Japanese equities
have run too far ahead and the first
time we get any push back on what
Takishi wants that could be reflected in
the stock market.
>> Jets fantastic references there Steve
Michael Bolton of course who can forget
he also sang what was that other song
that I said I love you but I lied. Mark
Randfield cruising for us in Alliance
City in Singapore. Speaking of cruising,
uh the fixing coming through of the PBOC
on top of that the well the the fix uh
7way handle and the onore rate
strengthening to the well to the
strongest level against the US dollar
going back to this time around this time
last year. in November 2024 on those
levels. Coming up on your screen is
dollar onshore 71014
against well at least the exchange rate,
right? Um coming up here uh we're
looking at uh the wealth effects
question mark exclamation point.
Bloomberg intelligence says Hong Kong
may soon [music] top Switzerland as the
world's leading crossber wealth center.
Goldman Sachs joins us next for a deeper
dive into private wealth [music]
management trends in the Asia-Pacific.
Much more ahead. This [music] is
Bloomberg.
Right. Welcome back. You're watching the
China show. Yeah. [music] still quite a
big number by that date or by that year.
So Bloomberg intelligence thinks that
private wealth assets here in Hong Kong
that's aum could nearly double to that
amount by that time that the puts of
course the financial hub uh on track to
top Switzerland as the world's leading
crossber wealth center. Charnie Wong our
senior analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence
is here to just help us understand the
road from here to how we get there and
what's going to drive us to that number.
>> Thanks David. So we're seeing very
robust inflows and that's a trend that
has continued since last year.
>> Uh it's driven by crossber. There's also
very strong household wealth growth in
Hong Kong. And then um also investment
returns are a lot better. So last year
when we look at the SFC numbers, AUM was
actually up 15%. Whereas we only had
around 8% growth. So uh I think just
long-term trend we are very positive.
One thing that I think is really going
to drive this is the pick up in risk
appetite. So we actually did a survey of
100 respondents in Hong Kong and
Singapore and it found that risk
appetite is going to rise over the next
12 months and we're definitely seeing
that you know in terms of the asset
allocation preferences in equities,
private equity, hedge funds, digital
assets though was th those were the most
popular. Also greater China is now back
in favor. So it was ranked as a you know
top region in terms of investment uh
allocation.
>> A Johnny this is Steve Angel up here in
Tokyo. I just want to ask in particular
about the Chinese investors. Uh clearly
the risk appetite is not high on the
mainland because of the uncertainty
towards the economy and people are kind
of holding on to their funds. But how
exponentially have you seen uh the
wealthy in China come to places like
Hong Kong as opposed to Singapore or
elsewhere for uh their their wealth
management?
>> So Hong Kong is definitely the top
destination. I I I don't think there is
really that competition, right? Like I I
could go on all all day about, you know,
why that is. Um we've we've got the
geographical lo location, you know, the
proximity and also all the crossber
infrastructure. So I I think the outlook
is very positive because right now we
are seeing you know Beijing really push
ahead with opening up crossboarder
access with potentially um you know u
enhancements to be made to say the
wealth management connect or even other
programs like the uh MRF program or
potentially higher QD quotas. So overall
uh we're very positive on the outlook
for crossber wealth coming in from
mainland China.
>> Well speaking of southbound flows are
they sustainable? What are you hearing?
Um I so it's been very strong um stock
connect at a record high right in terms
of turnover but actually I think the
party has just started because when we
look at just the amount of money in
China the amount that is locked up in
deposits it's over 60% of household
financial assets this is even more than
Japan which is at which is at around 50.
So there's a ton of deposits that are
yet to be deployed in capital market
products. And then on top of that,
they're so underinvested overseas, you
know, because of capital controls. But
now that they're opening up, uh I I
think there is a a huge potential. So
just FPI, which is foreign portfolio
investments, that's the amount of um
investments that they invest overseas is
only 8% of their GDP. Last year was 6%.
But when we look at other countries like
UK, Japan, it's over 100%. So that just
goes to show like there is just so much
potential for offshore investments.
>> Uh Charnie also in your survey AI played
a significant part of that. How do you
see that uh shaping obviously wealth
management and how does that reflate uh
relate to uh the jobs that are necessary
for wealth management?
>> Yes. So no surprises you know from our
survey tech was the biggest cost driver
you know say on AI big data but what was
a surprise was that despite the fact
that everyone's spending a lot on AI
only 3% anticipate layoffs so this just
goes to show that you know advisers
they're in huge demand and uh we think
that AI is more of a complimentary tool
rather than a replacement for human
capital. Charnie, fantastic. Thank you
so much. For Bloomberg clients, you can
check out her research of course and her
teams at BIGO. Charnie Wong there, our
senior analyst at Bloomberg
Intelligence. Let's uh well, let's use
that as a jumping off point to broaden
conversations around trends in private
wealth and really just asset allocation
generally speaking. Joining us here on
set is Sarah Naison Tarahano, global
head of private wealth management,
capital markets at Goldman Sachs. She's
paid us a visit as she goes through the
Asia Pacific. It's very nice to see you.
>> It's great to be here. Thanks so much
for having me.
>> It's almost an annual habit to see.
>> Exactly.
>> So, what's changed since since the last
time you here, give or take, let's call
it this time last year.
>> Sure. So, um, last time we spoke about
some of the trends we were seeing with
our global family offices. Um, and today
we actually are speaking on the back of
a global family office report that we
put together um that surveyed 245 family
offices from around the world and we
have some really interesting data on the
back of that. Um what I would say is
that family offices are generally
riskon. Um and that was the case a year
ago, two years ago. So we see our global
family offices 73% in risk assets. Um
what that means is that these are
families that sort of understand that in
order to continue to grow their capital
to beat inflation postspending and
taxes, you have to be invested. Um so
that's been really a prevailing theme.
But to complement that, we do see high
cash balances. So 12% um in cash that
more barbelled approach to manage the
illquidity of their portfolios.
>> Okay.
>> I can also spend a minute on some of the
differences we see with our APEC family
offices. Um so I would say also
generally risk on um so 66% in risk
assets, a combination of equity and
alternatives. But one interesting trend
we see very similar allocations to
public equities. But one trend that we
saw from two years ago in our survey is
that our Asia family offices have
actually increased their allocations to
public equities by 7%. Um they've
actually decreased their cash balances
from 25 to 19, but they still have
higher cash balances than our family
offices in EMIA um and the United
States.
>> Okay. Interesting. Okay. So let's let's
talk about the increase to to public
equity because that's interesting.
What's the overweight there?
>> Um sure. So they're about so our um Apac
family offices have 30% in public
equities from 23% 2 years ago and I
think all you have to do is look at the
equity markets to sort of understand
that they're doing well.
>> They're doing quite well. I looked back
you know if you look at the last two
years the US equity market has returned
north of 70% um all on local currency
basis. I'm I'm sharing all of this. The
um Chinese market has returned 65%
and Japan 69%. And so I think these are
quite um sophisticated families and I
will say we saw this in April around
liberation day when these markets get
dislocated these these families take
their cash and they go into equities and
that is a real difference than what we
see from you know the classic
institutional community. We had very
little hedging in April, very little
profit taking. When we saw the market
dislocations, these families went
running into the market. And I think
that's one of the distinct advantages
that family offices have. They can run
into the market when everyone else is
running away. They're not answering to a
board of directors. They're more
long-term. They're often
multigenerational. And they know you
when you get these pullbacks, you want
to be risk,
>> right?
>> Yeah. Sarah, I was just going to ask you
more about this. as high as Steve Angel
up here in Tokyo. I'm sort of following
the geopolitical trends up here as Trump
is moving around North Asia and he'll be
going over to Korea. Obviously, there's
a lot of concern about obviously
bifurcation of supply chains and and the
the the world order if you will. And you
talked about them being risk on. I find
it fascinating that they're running into
the equity markets when a lot of people
are kind of pulling back with that risk
on a risk off sentiment and going into
gold and and safer investments. But
you're seeing the opposite.
>> Well, I would say first of all, this is,
you know, progress over the last two
years. So, this is what we've seen in
the last two years from our last survey
and we saw a lot of people entering the
market in April. I would say if you look
at today certainly people given the
market appreciation that we've seen are
maybe a little bit more cautious and
they're try and they're talking a bit
about hedging trades whether that's
buying puts or taking advantage of skew
and buying put spreads or with some
single names that have gone up
significantly look at collaring stocks
so buying a put and selling a call but I
think the fact that they have these
large allocations to cash means that
they worry a little bit less about the
overall portfolio construction ruction
because they're not worried about being
forced sellers on dislocations. And then
remember that for our US investors which
comprise close to 50% of the survey,
there's [snorts] big tax issues when you
sell large concentrated positions or any
positions that have deep embedded gains.
So we haven't really seen that much
concern around their equity allocations.
We have seen a lot of entrance into
gold. And I would say, you know, the
pullback that we've seen in the last
week that we really think was a momentum
shift and profit taking represents an
opportunity for some clients who missed
the boat on gold uh to get involved.
>> Yeah. I was actually going to ask you,
so we put that on a graphic actually,
sort of the changes in allocation from I
think two years ago.
>> Sure.
>> To the one in 2025.
Are you observing or are you noticing
any new profiles of investors getting
into gold? In other words, what's the
new community that's getting into this
as well?
>> Yeah. So I would say look we don't have
gold at Goldman Sachs in our investment
strategy group. We don't have gold as
part of our asset allocation. We view it
as a more tactical trade. I will say
that many more clients.
>> Are you getting any push back on that?
Just to ask you from from clients.
>> No, I think that clients look at it more
tactically. It's a it's they don't
necessarily view it as a core part of
the asset allocation. That doesn't mean
we don't think it's you know we have
quite a bullish so we think we're going
to be at 4900 an ounce by the end of 26,
right? So that leaves quite a bit of
room for upside. So we see clients
trading it more tactically. I would say
most of our clients are interested in
talking about gold. What we saw from the
survey is that the the clients that used
gold the most when they were thinking
about a hedge were clients in APEC. But
I think that is expanding. And I just
came off a trip to the Middle East. We
did a family office conference in Dubai.
There was a lot of discussion around
goal. I think, you know, geopolitical
risk, tariffs, all of these things lead
clients to think, you know, maybe I
should have something in gold. And then
you add to that sort of how underweight
gold emir
counterparts. We put out an interesting
piece that said if you took 1% of the
private umly held um assets that sit in
US treasuries and move that into gold,
that would imply a 5,000 um per ounce
share uh price on gold. And so I think
there's there's a lot of discussion
around gold for sure.
>> Yeah, that's quite a small amount too,
like just only 1%.
>> Yeah. No, we're not talking major moves
here. And I think what's interesting,
you know, and your colleague mentioned
this is just because people are looking
at hedging trades or thinking about gold
as a hedge doesn't mean they're steering
away from their asset allocation, right?
I think they think of it more as an
overlay and a complement to actually
having to make big seismic shifts in
their asset allocation. Can I just ask
you one last question? Sure. Private
credit, how has that changed
particularly? I mean, recently we've had
some negative news, you know, in some
parts of these deals as well. Has that
affected any of the appetite for it?
>> Yeah, I think look what I would say
about some of that news, I do think it's
idiosyncratic and isolated and I think
the earnings that you see from the large
um banks sort of demonstrate that
generally not not affected by that. But
our clients in the survey actually
increased their um allocations to
private credit quite significantly.
still small. So from 3% to 4%, but
that's a 33% increase. And I think the
interest in private credit is still the
pickup you get over public market fixed
income. When we look at it, we see about
a 3% pickup. And then, you know, the
better governance being higher on the
cap stack. I think the key with private
credit, and we talk about this a lot
with clients, is you have to be super
disciplined about who you partner with.
Um, you need to focus on a manager
that's been through mult multiple
cycles. you need to understand what
their loss ratios look like. Um what
their defaults look like. Have they been
through you know the global financial
crisis? How long have they been doing
this? Um but I do think that um most of
our clients who are very overweight
equity products sort of like private
credit um as a way to think about
general diversification in their
portfolio with a higher yield associated
with it clearly than equities.
>> There we go. Sarah, thank you so much
for paying us a visit.
>> Thank you so much for having me. I love
being here.
>> Enjoy Tokyo. I believe. Yes. Tomorrow.
>> Yeah. There we go. Sarah Naison Tarhano
there, global head of private wealth
management at C uh capital markets at at
Goldman Sachs, right? Uh yeah, Steve. So
Sarah's headed your way. Very quickly
before we head to the breaker, Shah
Composite has topped 4,000 for the first
time in 10 years. We're trading at ah
Okay, there we go. The news gods have
rained and then taken it away. Uh we're
back below that 4,000, but we were above
that. You don't have to take my word for
it. Look at the screens. There we go.
Plenty more ahead. This is the [music]
China show.
[music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. Here are some headlines. We are
tracking from around the world. Canadian
Prime Minister Mark Carney plans to meet
with Chinese President Xiinping later
this week in South Korea. Of course,
that's where the Apex summit's [music]
going to be held. Canada is looking to
firm up relations with China while
long-standing ties with the United
States [music] fray. President Trump
recently called off trade talks and
threatened additional tariffs over a TV
advertisement quoting Ronald Reagan on
free trade. And Mexican President
Claudia Shinbomb says the US is
extending a deadline to reach a trade
deal by several weeks. Shinbal says she
both she and President Trump agreed to
extend talks [music] to give both
nations more time to reach an agreement
on non-tariff trade barriers. Trump
earlier set a November [music] 1st
deadline to raise tariffs on certain
Mexican goods from 25 to 30%. And the
European Union and China will hold talks
this week to address trade disputes.
[music] That says Beijing's uh
restrictions on exports of key minerals
and chips risk disrupting Europe's auto
industry. The EU is working on a
contingency plan while also preparing
trade [music] options to retaliate
against China's restrictions.
Okay, we're just looking at Japanese cot
markets going into the lunch [music]
break about under four minutes from now.
So, we're lower on the benchmark. Uh and
this is the big news, the big stock news
at least here. So you have NIDC volumes
are just through the roof. I think
[music] we're more than 12x what you're
usually seeing. Uh so the Nick has
actually removed the stock here amid
improper accounting issues. The stock is
acting accordingly.
In place [music] of that is dividend of
course which is coming through 15% to
the upside following of course that's uh
the [music] news there as far as that
company is concerned. The inclusion
following the exclusion of of the other.
Okay. Uh we're just headed into the
Tokyo [music] lunch break and on the
other side of it we'll talk more about
really what took place there this
morning. Why Steve's in town of course
and all the coverage [music] we're doing
out of President Trump's trip to Tokyo.
Plenty morehead. This is the China show.
Now both Japan and the United States
have developed the greatest alliance in
the world and together with you, Japan
is ready to contribute to the [music]
world's peace and stability.
>> This will be a relationship that will be
stronger than ever before and I look
forward to working with you. And on
behalf of our country, I want to just
let you know anytime you [singing] have
any question, any doubt, anything you
want, any favors you need, anything I
can do to help Japan, [music] we will be
there. We are an ally at the strongest
level.
Now, President Trump there and also
Japanese Prime Minister Sai Takahichi
speaking earlier at Akasaka Palace. And
an interesting dynamic, Dave, going on
there. And we're hearing just on the top
live uh blog that Takichianisan has
presented Donald Trump with a golf bag
signed by Hideki Matsyama and also Prime
Minister Abbe's putter apparently is in
that golf bag. Of course, we all know
that Donald Trump and Shinszo Abbe had a
good relationship. The last time Trump
was here in Tokyo, he met with Abbe at
Akasaka Palace. We know that TakiichiSan
is a protetéé, if you will, of Shinszo
Abbe. So, there were a lot of kind words
about the slain former prime minister of
Japan who was of course assassinated in
2022. Dave,
>> yeah, they did. That was one of the
things that stood out to me, Steve,
really among this. And I think it it's
worth pointing out that
that sound bite we just played really
tells you everything almost you need to
know about what this relationship will
will really look like between not just
the two countries but the personal
rapport that you know President Trump
always talks about um his personal
relationships and how that is an
important facet to how I guess he
approaches things and his his his
worldview and that really underscores
what he thinks and how he thinks about
the new Japanese prime minister. And I
think just to circle back to your
earlier point. U you know both of them
have this really deep affection uh for
former prime minister Shinszo AB which I
guess really just underscores how close
your relationship has even uh has even
become in the last just call it the last
2 three hours or so. Steve.
>> Yeah. Yeah, and I think it's a bit of a
relief as well to Japanese authorities
uh that their uh discussions have gotten
off on such a very warm footing and also
Scott Bessant also you know hailing the
expansionary policies that lifted the
Nikk 225 as well above 50,000 kind of
takes the pressure if you will at least
face tof face pressure for the Japanese
to address the issue of the weak yen at
152 to the dollar. So uh we are going to
be shifting focus tomorrow as I I also
head to the airport and head to Korea.
The next big meeting of course you know
this is still going on obviously a
working lunch between Trump and
Takiichan. But uh Thursday in Korea in
in Guangju down in Southeast Korea
you're going to have that high-profile
Trump shei meeting. Uh here we've heard
as well uh recently uh from Nicholas
Burns the former US ambassador under Joe
Biden by the way to China. This is what
he had to say about the Trump she
meeting coming up in South Korea.
>> I think the the tension between the
United States on trade issues is going
to continue past this meeting. That's
not a criticism of President Trump. It's
actually more a crit criticism of the
Chinese government and the fact that
they've been extraordinarily difficult
on these issues. Overall, I'd say that,
you know, this is a very competitive
USChina relationship.
Yes. So, we're literally in this
specific this specific week following
the news. As Steve was just pointing
out, we're on the Tokyo lunch break.
He's headed out to the airport quite
soon. Uh, in case you're wondering where
Ivan is, she's also headed to Korea
where really all roads will are leading
to this week following uh the uh the
itinerary of the US president and that
meeting of course on Thursday. Before we
get to that though, just a very quick
snapshot of markets and other themes
that we're tracking here. So, volumes
are just like not there. They're not
there at all. prices on the way down. So
suffice to say there's very little
happening on the macro side of things
just given this wall of risk events
coming through. It's not just
geopolitics, right? You have everything
from monetary policy decisions. You have
massive earnings coming through across
the world. So Asia Pacific is busy. I
think this is the busiest week so far uh
based on confirmed reporting uh dates
and then we get into Wednesday and
Thursday where really you have 10 hours
of just manic headlines coming through.
Flip the page please. We'll talk about
HSBC and as we look at that. So you have
everything from the Fed a few hours
after that big reports coming through. A
few hours after that you have this big
meeting taking place between the two
presidents. I think we can worry about
that on Thursday. All that [snorts] is
to say um before we things get busy big
earnings report is coming through in
about 90 minutes or so. HSBC is
reporting certainly we'll be focused in
on this recent transaction and what that
means in case you're curious what the
forecasts are looking like. Uh this is
the prior one. This is the comparison.
and you do the math of course and that's
what you get as far as some of the the
metrics are concerned, jaws as they say.
Very quickly, so I alluded to this uh
this recent transaction. Uh our analysts
at Bloomberg Intelligence have
effectively said this plan to acquire
the remaining stake in Hansing Bank
which broke I think about two or three
weeks back will likely dominate this
earnings call with the focus really on
number one what it means for upside
revenue strategies given the fact that
they had already owned uh the majority
of that bank and what happens with this
and how they outlined this given of
course that that fairly hefty premium
Steve that they they paid for and really
on the back of that They then give up of
course nearby back the other thing that
emerged uh from that transaction. Steve,
>> yeah, that's right. I mean, a lot of
issues that we're going to dig deeper
into on the HSBC results. You know, Mark
Tucker, the chairman, he's out there
still searching for a new chairman uh
and who's going to pilot the bank going
forward uh through some of these um you
know, uncertain times. Joining us now is
Lorraine Tan, director of Asia Equity
Research at Morning Star. Good morning
to you, Lorraine. Um, so what's going to
be front and center for you? Yes, the
the conference call probably is going to
dominate the the take private uh uh the
privatization if you will of Hang Sang
Bank, but there's other issues uh
private credit risks globally. There's
of course this provisions tied to Bernie
Maid off, but is Hangen going to be the
the primary driver of the narrative
today?
>> Yeah, I Good morning. I think yes very
much so because the as you mentioned
they're paying a premium for the bank.
We've actually factored in some
synergies uh from the acquisition
overall. We think it's a positive move.
It helps maybe to provide better control
over risks as well. Um having said this
I mean we do feel HSBC is fully valued.
There's not a lot that would change our
view from that at this stage because of
the entire environment where we do
expect um slowing global growth and that
could raise uh some risk still. Um but
overall we'd like to see where where the
the cost energies are coming from.
>> Yeah, that's right. So you mentioned
about the slower growing uh global
growth. How what's the going to be the
impact then on net interest margins for
the bank as the interest rate
environment also is going to be coming
down?
>> Yeah, so you've got a few pressures.
You've got NIM that's going to be
gradually easing. Uh we want to see how
HSBC is managing and containing the the
slide in the NIN. At the same time,
we've got very strong uh non-interest
income growth that we're expecting that
the market is probably factored in
already given the the robust uh US banks
earnings from that front. So, we want to
see how uh this uh the strong nonfee or
non-interesting him can continue. We
want to see where the how NIM is
pressures are contained. Um overall,
however, we're we're pretty much only
expecting fairly flat uh earnings. maybe
just slow growth over the next few years
for HSBC, not the only bank in this
boat, but obviously uh whatever they do
in terms of cost containment will help
uh to buffer um earnings over the next
couple of years. So overall, we're we're
pretty um comfortable with HSBC at the
moment, but we just want to see if
there's potential for for any heightened
risks if there's on the flip side of
that um growth that could be coming in a
little bit better than we expected.
>> How about provisions for its Asia
business or greater China business?
Obviously I think the the Bernie made
off provisions that they announced was
it Monday or or whenever uh is a little
bit separate because of the the fraud
case there over time but in Asia you had
that interim results uh charge basically
on the the the dispersion of the was it
bocom right uh so what what kind of
other provisions could we be expecting
in the third quarter results or do you
think it's pretty much over
>> well we would just hope that it's over I
mean this is third quarter results. So
the good news is that you don't have
Hung Bank reporting in 3Q. So maybe we
won't see charges related to Hung Bank.
Having said that, you know, um given
that the maid off charge was a little
bit of a surprise, uh we don't know for
sure, but I think the bulk of let's say
the China related charges should be
covered. uh given the outlook, we're
expect we've seen some stabilization in
in uh the real estate uh occupancy rates
in Hong Kong. So hopefully we we're
seeing the bottom of those risks and so
hence we're not really expecting a lot
more one-offs uh this time around.
>> Yeah. Why can't they find a chairman? I
mean Mark Tucker is a pretty hard
charging guy. He's had four different
CEOs, I believe, over his time. Uh, is
that something that's front and center
or just gonna wait and see? We've been
waiting for a while.
>> I think we just have to wait and see. I
mean, it's it's luckily it's it's got
obviously a strong operational team, so
we're expecting it to be business as
usual whether chairman or no chairman.
[laughter]
>> Hey, Lorraine, do you have any thoughts?
Obviously, we're going to be turning our
attention in in the Asia-Pacific region
here to the Trump she uh meeting that's
going to happen on Thursday. I'm
pivoting away from HSBC a little bit,
but are there some front and center
thoughts that you have on your mind
about what could go right and what could
go wrong?
Uh the only I mean you know given that
this is dominated and it's up and down
for the past you know several months uh
what we're hoping is at least some uh
agreement on with some hard numbers.
[clears throat] We're still going to be
skeptical in the fact that we do expect
heightened uh risks from from terrorists
from whatever geopolitics. I think that
there's no escape from that. Um
we do think however that uh uh it's more
probably beneficial for China to have
some sort of agreement with the US. We'd
like to see China focus very much more
on boosting domestic growth, boosting
domestic consumption. We're hoping that
if there's this trade framework in
place, they're able to to pivot to that
more.
>> Yeah. Positive obviously developments
framework agreement. We'll have to see
if the two leaders when they meet face
to face, uh, they can actually put their
signatures to it or at least verbal
endorsement of the different things that
they've come to agreement on in
Malaysia. Lorraine Tan, director of
Equity Research Asia at Morning Star,
thanks so much for joining us uh, this
morning on the China show. And
subscribers can also turn to the
terminal for more on HSBC's earnings, I
believe, coming out midday today. T Live
Go is your function for the latest
updates, plus [music] commentary and
anal analysis from our expert editors.
Plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Right. Welcome back. Uh I think we're
back on air. Are we? I guess we are.
Anyway, always be ready that your mic's
hot, the [music] camera's back on, and
maybe two people are watching, one
including my [music] director. Anyway,
that's just me. That's just me buying
time. We're looking at What are we
looking at here? Okay. Yeah. So, [music]
we'll have a conversation around
renewables and this push towards solar.
How much capacity is common online this
year across an energy [music] mix?
What's interesting too is when you talk
about AI for example which has really
been a feature uh of this uh of this
market [music] quite central if you fact
if you think about it the one of the
things that's emerged really is how we
power this AI push right and nuclear's
[music] come out for example there is
this of course gap uh in terms of supply
and where that's going to come from to
power just almost in a day-to-day basis
another data center in another place uh
in the world and all that is to say um
if you strip China out of the
conversation from the solar
from the solar push. How is the rest of
the world um actually doing? Right. So
that's certainly a conversation we'll be
having out of Singapore in a couple of
minutes or so. Uh while we talk about
that, can we just pivot as well and we
look at not this can we look at Chinese
markets please if we can because I want
to look at that as well. So a couple of
things happening in China today. Uh one
is it's a big earnings day. We talked
about HSBC. That's coming out in about
an hour and 15 minutes. That's point
number one. alongside the earning story
is the reason I'm going to just uh just
crowbar this in uh if you will because a
lot of the earning story maybe with the
exception of the mag well five out of
the mag seven might get attention is
what we're moving into this three next
three days of just central bank
decisions political headlines
maybe a framework and hopefully more
meat in the bones as it pertains to the
trade deal between the US and China or
should we call it a trade deal should we
call it a broader agreement since it
will feature more than just trade for
example. So earnings is a big story. On
top of earnings, there's also this
really big uh can we get the I want to
talk about this trading debut here
today. Um so you have snee heavy which
is doing too well but the other ones are
actually doing quite nicely in the first
day of trade. Uh and that's just me
saying that when you look at the the
trading debut today, uh can we talk
about markets please? We'll talk about
solar in a moment. um is that today is
actually the busiest day for cash calls
in Hong Kong going back to July. So you
have at least four companies hitting the
market and on top of that November 6,
mark your calendars now. We have four
more companies, well three at least that
I know. Uh Pony AI rerides uh among the
companies that have set their pricing I
think on November 4th and then they're
going to list here in Hong Kong. Trading
debut is on November 6th. Anyway, that's
just me uh and getting carried away with
my thoughts here. Anyway, okay, what did
we talk about? Let's talk about solar.
Why not? And renewable energy and this
big push, of course, it's hard to ignore
the sun. Okay. Um our next guest
actually runs the International
Renewable Energy Agency, which is the
lead intergovernmental agency for this
push towards what we alluded to earlier,
energy transition. Let's bring in the
director general, Franchesco Lakam,
joining us from Singapore uh
International Energy Week. Franchesco,
good morning. Thank you for joining us.
We appreciate the time. In fact, we I
think spoke uh almost this time last
year plus four days. I think it was
October 22 was the was the date of the
conference last
>> uh last last year. And I think I
remember one of the things you said back
then was it's the direction of travel is
clear. It's really the pace at which we
look at these new installations of
capacity. I wonder from that point in
time we're threearters into 2025
are you are you satisfied are you happy
with the pace that you've seen on
aggregate globally this year
>> so as far as uh as as uh today I think
that uh also in 2025 we are having new
breaking records
uh if the preliminary data will be
confirmed at the end of the year we are
moving into an astonished 700 gawatt of
new renewable installer capacity. This
means that we have never been so close
to the uh to be able to put the ship in
a pathway is consistent with the
achievement of the Paris agreement goal.
The impression that I have that we are
really close to the last mile to put the
ship in a safe in a safe way. They
surprised people with these
>> okay Franchesco the I mean it's this is
a feature of the industry anyway but I
wonder just for temporarily for a
conversation sake if we strip out China
which has really been not just a
dominant player but really the
bellweather of this global push towards
renewables how would you describe the
world's efforts and the status of the
world's efforts to to to to to bring
renewable capacity online if you exclude
the efforts from mainland
So if you exclude China and if we look
at the data that we have from the last
year we see that we have also very good
progress in India in European Union and
also in the US we we broke a new record
of renewable capacity in 2024. So
naturally the China role is still
dominant but progress is is everywhere.
In fact, the only area that a little
left behind are unfortunately Africa and
still Southeast Asia should be done
better. So the world is is progressing
all around but we are leaving behind
Africa and Southeast Asia and this could
be really a great risk not only from a
moral or for the sense of justice but
from the fact that in this two area of
the world the energy demand will be
growing faster in the in the years to
come. If we don't intercept this demand
with clean energy, this will be very
difficult to keep the ship in a pathway
consistent with the achievement of the
Paris agreement goals.
>> Franchesco, interesting that you
mentioned Southeast Asia. Well, for one,
you're in Singapore for this big
conference. The the reason I bring that
up is the fact that it's lagging on this
front but also it's been a key recipient
of Chinese investment in terms of
renewable production capacity yet it
themselves lag as far as their energy
mix is concerned. Uh what do you think
is needed in Southeast Asia? Is it a
regulatory push? Is it a funding push?
Is it all of the above? What's missing?
So uh both of what you have say we at
Aarina we have our narrative on what
should be done to accelerate our our our
pace and this apply also for Southeast
Asia. So here the first priority is
infrastructure.
So if we are not able to move the
electron the molecule into the southeast
Asia this means that we have
difficulties to put more clean energy
into the grids. So first infrastructure,
the second is the legal environment. So
we have still a market that is designed
for for fossil fuels energy system and
not for the the renewables. And the
third is the the capacity of of the
institutions because a distributive
energy system based on renewables could
be better for the environment, better
for energy security, better for social
aspects, but could be a little bit more
complex to manage. And we also have to
to to reskill the workers that are
coming from the old sector to the new
one. And also try to train, educate our
young people to for as a professional
for fitting better their professionality
to the new and new system that is
coming.
>> Franchesco, thank you so much for the
time. That's all we have time for
unfortunately, but let's talk again
soon. Hopefully not this time next year.
Certainly hopefully somewhere in
between. Franchesco Lamera there of the
International Renewable Energy Agency in
Singapore for us. There's plenty more
ahead here on Bloomberg Television.
Welcome back. Before we wrap up the
China [music] show today, let me bring
in Steve, of course, our co-anchor today
and really been out of Tokyo. Really
been an unorthodox news flow as far as
the week is concerned. And Steve is in
Tokyo, of course, covering uh the trip
of President Trump who then goes on and
I think Steve follows him on, of course.
Steve, give us a sense of the what
what's your literal agenda today and
tomorrow.
>> Well, clearly there's been a lot of
flattery between Takichi and Donald
Trump. They're building a relationship
uh on a springboard of both of theirs
admiration for the slain former prime
minister Shinszo Abbe. In fact, Takichi
gifting according to the White House
officials a a golf bag signed by the
professional Japanese golfer Hideki
Matsyama. But including in that was
Shinszo A's
>> [clears throat]
>> uh putter. So that was a very kind
gesture by Takiichan that will obviously
mean a lot to Donald Trump. They also,
the two of them signed hats that say
Japan is back. That was a popular slogan
of Shinszo Abbe that Takian has uh taken
up the mantle of similar to [music] make
America great again. Go figure. Dave
been great.
All right, that's it from us. We'll see
you all [music] tomorrow.